A Rectangular array of numbers or functions. Example: $$\begin{align*}\begin{bmatrix}0.3 & 1 & -5 \\ 
0 & -0.2 & 16\end{bmatrix},& \quad 
\begin{bmatrix}a_{11} & a_{12} & a_{13} \\
a_{21} & a_{22} & a_{23} \\ 
a_{31} & a_{32} & a_{33} \end{bmatrix} \\ 
\begin{bmatrix}e^{-x} & 2x^2 \\ e^{6x} & 4x\end{bmatrix},& \quad 
\begin{bmatrix}a_1 & a_2 & a_3\end{bmatrix} \end{align*} \tag{1}$$ are all matrices.

### Notations
##### Entries/Elements
Number or functions in the matrix
##### Rows
Horizontal lines of entries
##### Columns
Vertical lines of entries
##### Index
Position of an element in the matrix.

### Square Matrix
Matrix with equal number of rows and Columns.

### Vector
Matrix with only one row or a column.
Row vector - Has only one row
Column Vector - Has only one column

One index is sufficient to indicate the position of entries in a vector, since the other one is always 1(or 0 depending on the indexing notation)

## General Concepts
### Matrix
Formalizing all the descriptions above a matrix A (always use capital letters to denote a matrix) of $m$ rows and $n$ columns $(m\times n)$ is denoted by $$A = [a_{ij}]=\begin{bmatrix} a_{11} & a_{12} & \cdots & a_{1n}\\ 
a_{21} & a_{22} & \cdots & a_{2n}\\
\vdots & \vdots & \ddots & \vdots \\
a_{m1} & a_{m2} & \cdots & a_{mn} \end{bmatrix} \tag{2} $$
- For square matrix, $m=n$.
### Vector
- Matrix with only one row or column. 
- Entries are called components of a vector.
- Denote vectors by lowercase letters
- Row vector $$a = \begin{bmatrix} a_1& a_2& \cdots a_n \end{bmatrix}$$ is a vector of size n
- Column vector $$b=\begin{bmatrix}b_1\\ b_2\\ \vdots \\ b_n \end{bmatrix}$$ is a vector of size n

### Equality of Matrices
#### Size Equivalent
Two matrices are said to be size equivalent if they have same dimensions, i.e., they have same shape(rows are same and columns are same)
#### Value Equivalent
Two matrices are said to be value equivalent if they are [[01. Matrices#Size Equivalent|size equivalent]] and all the corresponding entries of the matrix are equal.

### Matrix Addition

### Matrix Scalar Multiplication

### 

#Matrices #System-of-Linear-Equations 